Well, there have been so many changes.
It's hard to keep up.
We hear that a lot, and it's true.
So the question is, how did these changes come about?
Does the governing body get together on a Wednesday morning and say, well, what will we change
this week?
Let's throw the brotherhood off a guard a little bit.
That would not be faithful or discreet.
The fact is that although changes may seem to be announced one after another, the decision
to put the changes into effect is often years in the making.
Now one of the first big changes that the current governing body had to grapple with had to
do with this.
Is it feasible to have a branch committee serving in the United States?
Now for years, I thought was that we really couldn't have a branch committee functioning
in the United States because the states was host to the governing body and the world headquarters.
So this was going to be a big decision, and it wasn't taken overnight.
A lot of consultation with mature, experienced brothers was necessary.
But finally, the decision was made.
And we believe that decision has had Jehovah's Ridge blessing.
We're proud of our hard working branch committee, and we're happy to have their support.
We need their support.
Now let's consider a couple of other examples.
Beginning of the first week of January 2009, the school service meeting and the congregation
book study were merged.
Now that decision was almost 10 years in the making.
As far back as 1999, it was being discussed.
Well then, why wasn't the decision made 10 years earlier?
Because the governing body wanted to be sure.
Will the brothers have what they need?
Will they have all of the spiritual food they need if we merge the meetings?
Now then one Wednesday, I think it was about 3.30 in the afternoon.
We'd had a long meeting.
We received two letters from a large branches, and one of the branches said that they had
many large congregations with seven or eight book studies, but with only one elder and
one ministerial servant.
So the elder might conduct five book studies, and the ministerial servant might conduct
three.
And then they had all of the parts on the meetings to prepare.
So all they were doing with their time was conducting book studies and preparing parts
for the meetings.
It was hard.
And then the same week we received a letter from another branch, and they explained why
the attendance at the book study was so low.
They explained that the publishers loved the meetings, all of the meetings, including
the book study, but they're very poor, and they couldn't afford the bus fare to attend
two mid-week meetings.
They had to choose.
And if they attended the school and service meeting, they could get almost two hours of
spiritual direction, whereas with the book study they would get one.
So most of the time it was the school and service meeting that won out.
Well, those two letters put a real face on the situation, and it helped us to make the
decision.
Now in 2008, a public edition and a study edition of The Watch Tower began to be published.
That decision was a long time coming.
We discussed the possibility off and on, but we always said, let's not be hasty, let's
wait a little bit, let's see what Jehovah wants.
The main thing was, what would Jehovah want?
And how would we know?
We decided to make a sort of fleece test.
And so in 2006, we began publishing one awake a month, but we kept publishing two watchtowers.
So that would be three magazines per month instead of four.
And the rationale was, we'll try it for a year.
And if at the end of a year our magazine placements have plummeted, we'll know that Jehovah is
not backing this arrangement, we can go back to producing two Awakes a year.
Well, what was the result?
At the end of the year, we were placing as many magazines at three per month as we had
been placing at four per month the year before.
So that indicated to us that Jehovah was backing the arrangement and how many of us have
appreciated having a study edition of The Watch Tower that speaks directly to the Brotherhood
and then a public edition of The Watch Tower.
That can be tailored a little bit more to the needs of the public.
Now before making any decision that affects the kingdom work, the governing body has
to carefully consider the spiritual implications.
An example.
In 2008, the decision was made to reduce the length of public talks from 45 minutes to
30 minutes.
Well, you see, how could that decision possibly affect the spirituality of the Brotherhood?
And if you're serving in an urban congregation with many elders and nearby, there are other
urban congregations with many elders, perhaps you'd have difficulty in understanding the
reasoning.
But the governing body has to look at the whole picture.
Thousands of our brothers have served with Anita's great and they've learned a foreign
language.
And in many, many of these congregations, the learners are the elders.
Some of the learners have told us that for every minute of a public talk, it is required
one hour of preparation.
So can you imagine 45 minute public talk, 45 hours for some of them?
So the reduction in the length of the public talks has actually meant that these congregations
could have more public talks.
That's not all.
There are thousands of elders who are serving in isolated congregations that may be a hundred
miles or more from the next congregation.
So in one congregation, you have one elder and then a hundred miles away, you have another
congregation with one elder.
How many public talks were those brothers getting when there were 45 minute public talks?
The 15 minute reduction made a difference.
So if we take a narrow view and think only about our own situation and our own congregation,
well, we can have difficulty in understanding why certain decisions are made.
Now, the same principles apply to clarifications in our beliefs.
The governing body loves to get together and discuss the Bible, and when those Bibles
come out on the table and when the brothers bring their research in and they're starting
to search the scriptures and analyze the scriptures, you see the happy smiles on their faces.
The brothers love discussing spiritual things.
The clarifications are often a long time in coming into print.
Why?
Because the clarification on one scripture can have a domino effect on others.
The clarification on one scripture can have ramifications on other prophecies, so we
have to be absolutely sure that everything fits.
So to reiterate, although certain changes may be announced one after another, these decisions
are thought out very carefully.
And here's an interesting side point.
The older members of the governing body, brother Jaros, brother Barr, were just as interested
in making the adjustments as the younger members were.
They were very progressive.